Consider the following procedure enacted by a company for hiring new employees. When a new
job position is opened, the Hiring Team of the company creates a job advertisement that is posted
on a public database called “Jobs Tracking DB”. Many candidates can apply for the position within
30 days since the job advertisement posting. After this period, the Hiring Team checks the “Jobs
Applications DB” to look for candidates that have applied for the position. If no candidate has
applied, the Hiring Team posts the job advertisement again (and wait -- again -- for 30 days before
checking the “Jobs Applications DB”). This “loop” is repeated until at least one candidate applies to
the position. If this is the case, the Evaluation Team of the company starts searching the best
candidates for the job position.
Specifically, for each candidate retrieved from the “Jobs Applications DB”, an evaluation process
starts. Given a specific candidate, two different members of the Evaluation Team assess the CV
and the motivation letter separately. If the CV and the motivation letter are deemed adequate, a
personal interview is performed with the candidate. If not, the application is rejected, the
candidate is notified via email, and the evaluation process moves to the next candidate. After
having interviewed the candidate, the Evaluation Team can decide to reject the application of the
candidate (also in this case a notification of rejection is sent to the candidate) or to make her a job
offer via email. If the Evaluation Team does not receive - within 3 days – any acceptance
notification by the candidate, her application is automatically rejected, and the evaluation process
moves to the next candidate. If the candidate accepts the job offer, the Evaluation Team closes
the job position by updating the “Jobs Tracking DB” and aborts all the evaluations in progress.
When there is a candidate that has accepted the job offer, the control passes to the Hiring Team
that finalizes the process by sending a contract to the candidate.
Note that, after the evaluation process is started, if the hiring team does not receive - within 3
months - any notification of a candidate that has accepted the job offer, the job position is closed,
and the entire hiring process is aborted.
