After the enrolment into the two-year program for the MSc in Engineering in Management
Science, students must prepare and submit a study plan indicating the university courses they
wish to attend. The review and approval of the study plan is performed in an off-line modality by a
dedicated commission, which usually includes one or more professors appointed by the University.
The review and acceptance/rejection of a study plan is managed through a dedicated web-based
reviewing system, which provides a database containing all the study plans uploaded by the
students over time and that are waiting to be approved. Two kinds of study plans are recorded in
the database:
- Newly submitted study plans (never approved before);
- Already approved study plans that need to be re-evaluated due to updates (for example,
course changes) requested by the students.
A commission member accesses occasionally to the reviewing system. After performing the login
procedure, the member retrieves the study plans. For each newly submitted study plan, the
member assesses it from a scientific and technical point of view. On the contrary, in the case of a
study plan to be re-evaluated, a member must retrieve the specific student’s request of updating
stored in the study plans database and approve or reject it. The approval/rejection of a student
request will be reflected by updating the study plan’s database. If a new (or updated) study plan is
deemed eligible, it will be immediately approved (by updating the study plan’s DB) and a
notification is sent to the student who submitted it. On the other hand, if the commission member
proposes its rejection, a reason must be provided as part of the rejection notification sent to the
student. After all the study plans have been assessed, the member performs the logout from the
system and the process completes. Note the reviewing system enables the assessment of study
plans maximum for 1 hour per day. After this time, the system aborts any reviewing activity in
progress.
